<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>New Testament Demographics</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="nt.css" />
        <link
            href="http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Rock+Salt|Coming+Soon|Architects+Daughter"
            rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <p><br/><br/>There was a fairly clear contrast between the viewpoints of the UMC and SBC on the issue of ethnicity, but what exactly those viewpoints are is hard to pin down. Ethnicity, in a Biblical context, is always a reference to whether or not a
            person is of Jewish birth. Jesus himself was Jewish, as was Paul, but today,
            Christianity and Judaism are separate and very different religions. The controversy
            surrounding that split occupies much of the book of Romans, which Paul saying obfuscated
            and seemingly contradictory things regarding the entering of gentiles into the new faith
            and what this said about the status of Jews. In the time it was written, the debate Paul
            was playing to was whether or not gentiles needed to convert to Judaism before they
            could become Christians. This is no longer a question; the question today is almost the
            opposite: whether Jews automatically receive the salvation of Christ by virtue of being
            born into the Jewish nation, or whether they need to convert to Christianity. Neither
            the SBC nor the UMC has a clear official position on this, but if one searches the word
            “Israel” on each website, one will find that the UMC has accused the state of Israel of
            violating Palestinian civil rights while the SBC has repeatedly celebrated the founding
            of the state of Israel and defended its right to exist. These types of declarations
            alone do not necessarily indicate which side of the question these denominations fall
            on, but when combined with their commentaries on the book of Romans, it seems that the
            UMC leans more towards the conversion of Jews being necessary to their salvation while
            the SBC leans more towards Judaism itself leading to the same salvation as Christianity,
            but only through a still-future event that convinces the nation of Israel that Jesus was
            the Messiah. </p>
        <p> The most telling interpretations were of Romans 11, in which Paul states in verses 25-27
            “Israel has experiences a hardening in part until the full number of gentiles has come
            in, and in this way all Israel will be saved.” To the UMC, this verse is using the word
            Israel, in the phrase “all Israel will be saved,” to refer to the Christian church, as
            in people of any ethnicity who have chosen to accept that Jesus is the Messiah (Wright
            687-694). The SBC, one the other hand, points out that because Paul has been referring
            to the Jews and the gentiles as distinct ethnic groups throughout the book and even the
            chapter in question, it would be strange for him to suddenly appropriate the word
            “Israel” to include some gentiles and exclude some Jews. Thus, the verse must be
            prophesying a complete salvation for the Jewish nation, probably through their
            acceptance of Jesus as Messiah at the second coming (Mounce 223-226). </p>
    </body>
</html>
