<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>New Testament Demographics</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="nt.css" />
        <link
            href="http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Rock+Salt|Coming+Soon|Architects+Daughter"
            rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <p><br/><br/>From the home page onwards, the differing focuses of the websites of the Southern Baptist
            Convention and the United Methodist Church are abundantly clear. The statement in the
            logo of the UMC is “Open Hearts. Open Minds. Open Doors.,” while the statement in the
            logo of the SBC is “Reaching the World for Christ.” Just from that simple introduction
            one can see that the SBC is more concrete while the UMC is more abstract. The SBS slogan
            is direct enough that without reading any further or knowing what those three letters
            stand for, a visitor to the site can determine that this is an evangelical Christian
            church. The UMC logo, on the other hand, could belong to many different kinds of social
            organization. As one delves further into the websites, this contrast becomes clearer.
            The first list of links on the SBC website are to daily devotionals and the latest
            church resolutions while the first list of links on the UMC website are updates on
            reading programs in urban schools and articles on humanitarian efforts to combat malaria
            and Ebola—again, not even clearly denoting that the UMC is in fact a religious
            organization. In fact, while overall the SBC website seems designed to lead visitors to
            direct, easily understandable instructions on becoming a Christian, the UMC website does
            not make this information readily accessible, requiring at least three clicks down a
            less than obvious path to access it (Southern, People). </p>
        <p>This tendency towards directness can also be seen in the way that the content of the SBC
            website is written. On a page entitled “Basic Beliefs,” they lay out what they feel to
            be their key doctrinal points in a few paragraphs that take just minutes to read,
            utilizing a large number of absolute statements such as “Christians should oppose
            racism, every form of greed, selfishness, and vice, and all forms of sexual immorality,
            including adultery, homosexuality, and pornography.” In contrast, the website of the UMC
            does not have “basic beliefs” but rather places that information in a section of their
            website entitled “Our Christian Roots.” Overall, to get a full picture of what the UMC
            considers rudimentary doctrine, one must visit seven pages, each of which has a few
            paragraphs discussing the reasoning behind each belief, the Biblical passages supporting
            it, and any uncertainty or controversy surrounding it. Thus where the SBC simply states
            “He was conceived of the Holy Spirit and born of the virgin Mary,” the UMC says “In
            Mark, Jesus seems to be adopted as God's Son at his baptism. In Matthew and Luke, Jesus
            is conceived by the Holy Spirit. In John, Jesus is God's pre-existing Word who ‘became
            flesh and lived among us’(1:14). However this mystery occurred, we affirm that God is
            wholly present in Jesus Christ.” (Southern, People) </p>
        <p>Beyond listing basic Christian doctrines, the SBC has very little to say. They have
            “Position Statements” in which they state how their stance on particular issues might
            differ from other Christian denominations, but the only social issues they feel the need
            to write about are sexuality and the sanctity of life. One can understand fairly
            comprehensively how a SBC church member would vote, assuming they were voting in
            accordance with the official statements of their church, after about two minutes of
            reading. On the complete opposite end of this spectrum stands the “social principles and
            social creed” of the UMC, a set of webpages which takes at least half an hour to peruse
            containing opinions on everything from war in general to specifically space-based
            weapons, along with Biblical references to back those opinions up. Looking at the sheer
            number of opinions listed, it would seem like the UMC is telling its members what to do
            more so than the SBC, however the difference in phrasing prevents this from seeming
            entirely true. Where the SBC says “Christians must” or “Christians do,” the UMC says “we
            encourage” or “we regard,” allowing both for differences of opinion between United
            Methodist church members and for the fact that other Christian denominations may hold
            different opinions and still be Christians (Southern, People). </p>
    </body>
</html>
