<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html
  SYSTEM "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html>
   <head>
      <title>Instructions in Epistles</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <p>Number of Ethnic Specific Instructions 61</p>
      <p>Number of Ethnic Specific Instructions to Jews 23</p>
      <p>Number of Ethnic Specific Instructions to Gentiles 24</p>
      <p>Number of Ethnic Specific Instructions to All Ethnicities 14</p>
      <p>Number of Gender Specific Instructions 66</p>
      <p>Number of Gender Specific Instructions to Men 33</p>
      <p>Number of Gender Specific Instructions to Women 31</p>
      <p>Number of Gender Specific Instructions to Both Genders 2</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions 16</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions to Rich People 2</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions to Poor People2</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions to Slaves5</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions to Masters 2</p>
      <p>Number of Class Specific Instructions to All Classes 5</p>
      <h2>Instructions for Men</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Ephesians 6:3 " Fathers, do not exasperate your children; instead,
            bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:7 A man ought not to cover his head, since
            he is the image and glory of God;
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:32 An unmarried man is concerned about the Lord's affairs--how he can
            please the Lord.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:27 Are you unmarried?
            Do not look for a wife. But if you do marry, you have not sinned;
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:32 But a married man is concerned about the
            affairs of this world--how he can please his wife-- and his interests are
            divided.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:36 But the man who has settled the matter
            in his own mind, who is under no compulsion but has control over his own will, and
            who has made up his mind not to marry the virgin--this man also does the right
            thing.
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 5:16 Do not rebuke an older
            man harshly, but exhort him as if he were your father. Treat younger men as
            brothers,
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 6:15 Do you not know that he who unites
            himself with a prostitute is one with her in body? For it is said, "The two will
            become one flesh." But he who unites himself with the Lord is one with
            him in spirit. Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a man commits
            are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against his own body.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:13 Does not the very nature of things
            teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a disgrace to him,
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:4 Every man who
            prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head.
         </li>
         <li>Colossians 3:20 Fathers, do not
            embitter your children, or they will become discouraged.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:14 For the unbelieving husband has been
            sanctified through his wife
         </li>
         <li>Colossians 3:18 Husbands, love your wives and do not be
            harsh with them. 
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 5:24 Husbands, love your wives,
            just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her to make her
            holy, cleansing her by the washing with water through the word, and to
            present her to himself as a radiant church, without stain or wrinkle or any other
            blemish, but holy and blameless. In this same way, husbands ought to love
            their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. After all, no
            one ever hated his own body, but he feeds and cares for it, just as
            Christ does the church-- for we are members of his body. "For
            this reason a man will leave his father and mother and be united to his wife, and
            the two will become one flesh." This is a profound mystery--but I am
            talking about Christ and the church. However, each one of you also must
            love his wife as he loves himself
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 2:7 I want men everywhere to lift up holy
            hands in prayer, without anger or disputing.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:36 If
            anyone thinks he is acting improperly toward the virgin he is engaged to, and if she
            is getting along in years and he feels he ought to marry, he should do as he wants.
            He is not sinning. They should get married.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:12 If any brother has a wife who is not a believer and she is willing to
            live with him, he must not divorce her.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 1:27 In the
            same way the men also abandoned natural relations with women and were inflamed with
            lust for one another. Men committed indecent acts with other men, and received in
            themselves the due penalty for their perversion.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:4 In the same way, the husband's body does not
            belong to him alone but also to his wife.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:1 It is good for a man not to marry.</li>
         <li>Titus 2:5 Similarly, encourage
            the young men to be self-controlled. In everything set them an example by
            doing what is good. In your teaching show integrity, seriousness and
            soundness of speech that cannot be condemned, so that those who oppose you may be
            ashamed because they have nothing bad to say about us.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:37 So then, he who marries the virgin does
            right, but he who does not marry her does even better.
         </li>
         <li>Titus 2:1 Teach the older men to be temperate, worthy of respect,
            self-controlled, and sound in faith, in love and in endurance. 
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:3 The husband should fulfill his marital duty to his wife</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:11 a husband must not divorce
            his wife.
         </li>
         <li>Matthew 5:32 anyone who divorces his
            wife, except for marital unfaithfulness, causes her to become an
            adulteress, and anyone who marries the divorced woman commits
            adultery
         </li>
         <li>Matthew 5:28 anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already
            committed adultery with her in his heart
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:2 each man should have his own wife</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:16 how do you know, husband, whether you will
            save your wife?
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 6:9 male prostitutes</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:11 nor is man independent of woman. For as woman came from man, so also man is born of
            woman.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:3 the head of every man is Christ</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:29 those who have wives should live as if they had
            none;
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Women</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Colossians 3:17 
            Wives, submit to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:34  An unmarried woman or virgin is
            concerned about the Lord's affairs: Her aim is to be devoted to the Lord in both
            body and spirit.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:10 A wife must not separate from her husband. But if she does, she must remain unmarried
            or else be reconciled to her
            husband.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:38 A woman is bound to her husband as
            long as he lives. But if her husband dies, she is free to marry anyone she wishes,
            but he must belong to the Lord. In my judgment, she is happier if she
            stays as she is--and I think that I too have the Spirit of God.
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 2:10 A woman should
            learn in quietness and full submission. I do not permit a woman to teach
            or to have authority over a man; she must be silent.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:4 And every woman who prays or prophesies
            with her head uncovered dishonors her head--it is just as though her head were
            shaved. If a woman does not cover her head, she should have her hair cut
            off; and if it is a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut or shaved off, she
            should cover her head.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:12 And if a woman has a husband who is
            not a believer and he is willing to live with her, she must not divorce him.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:34 But a married woman is concerned about the
            affairs of this world--how she can please her husband. 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 1:26 Even their women exchanged natural relations
            for unnatural ones
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 2:12 For Adam was formed first, then Eve.
            And Adam was not the one deceived; it was the woman who was deceived
            and became a sinner. But women will be saved through childbearing--if
            they continue in faith, love and holiness with propriety.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:16 How do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband?</li>
         <li>1 Timothy 2:8 I also want women to dress modestly,
            with decency and propriety, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or expensive
            clothes, but with good deeds, appropriate for women who profess to
            worship God. 
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 5:15 If any woman who is a believer has widows in her family, she should help them and
            not let the church be burdened with them, so that the church can help those widows
            who are really in need.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:12 Judge for
            yourselves: Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
         </li>
         <li>Titus 2:2 Likewise, teach the older women to be
            reverent in the way they live, not to be slanderers or addicted to much wine, but
            to
            teach what is good. Then they can train the younger women to love their
            husbands and children, to be self-controlled and pure, to be busy at home,
            to be kind, and to be subject to their husbands, so that no one will malign the word
            of God
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 5:13 So I counsel younger widows to marry, to have
            children, to manage their homes and to give the enemy no opportunity for slander.
            
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 5:14 Some have in fact already
            turned away to follow Satan. 
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:4 The wife's body does not belong to
            her alone but also to her husband.
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 5:21 Wives, submit to your husbands as to
            the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head
            of the church, his body, of which he is the Savior. Now as the church
            submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything.
            
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:14 but that if a woman has long hair, it
            is her glory? For long hair is given to her as a covering. If anyone
            wants to be contentious about this, we have no other practice--nor do the churches
            of God.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:7 but the woman is the glory of man. For
            man did not come from woman, but woman from man; neither was man created
            for woman, but woman for man. For this reason, and because of the angels,
            the woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head. 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 7:2 by law a married woman is bound to her husband as
            long as he is alive, but if her husband dies, she is released from the law of
            marriage. So then, if she marries another man while her husband is still
            alive, she is called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, she is released from
            that law and is not an adulteress, even though she marries another man
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:2 each woman her own husband</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:28 if a virgin marries, she has not
            sinned
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:3 likewise the wife to her husband</li>
         <li>1 Timothy 5:1 older women as mothers, and younger
            women as sisters, with absolute purity.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:14 the
            unbelieving wife has been sanctified through her believing husband
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:3 the head of the woman is man</li>
         <li>Ephesians 5:33 the wife must respect her husband.</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 14:33 v n="34"/&gt;As in
            all the congregations of the saints, women should remain silent in the churches.
            They are not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the Law says. If they
            want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at
            home; for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in the church.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 11:11 woman is not independent of
            man
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Both Gender</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>2 Corinthians 11:2  I promised you to one husband, to Christ, so that I might
            present you as a pure virgin to him. 
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 3:28 male nor female</li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Jews</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Romans 10:21 
            
            I ask then: Did God reject his people? By no means! I am an Israelite
            myself, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin. God did not reject his
            people, whom he
            foreknew. Don't you know what the Scripture says in the passage about Elijah--how
            he
            appealed to God against Israel: "Lord, they have killed your prophets
            and torn down your altars; I am the only one left, and they are trying to kill
            me"?
            And what was God's answer to him? "I have reserved for myself seven
            thousand who have not bowed the knee to Baal." So too, at the present time
            there is a remnant chosen by grace. And if by grace, then it is no longer
            by works; if it were, grace would no longer be grace. What then? What
            Israel sought so earnestly it did not obtain, but the elect did. The others were
            hardened, as it is written: "God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes so
            that they could not see and ears so that they could not hear, to this very day." And
            David says: "May their table become a snare
            and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them. May their eyes
            be darkened so they cannot see, and their backs be bent forever.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 15:7 
            For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews on behalf of
            God's truth, to confirm the promises made to the patriarchs
         </li>
         <li>1 Thessalonians 2:14  You suffered from your
            own countrymen the same things those churches suffered from the Jews, who
            killed the Lord Jesus and the prophets and also drove us out. They displease God and
            are hostile to all men in their effort to keep us from speaking to the
            Gentiles so that they may be saved. In this way they always heap up their sins to
            the limit. The wrath of God has come upon them at last.
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 2:14 "You are a Jew, yet you live like a Gentile and not like a Jew.
            How is it, then, that you force Gentiles to follow Jewish customs? "We
            who are Jews by birth and not 'Gentile sinners' know that a man is not
            justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we, too, have put
            our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by
            observing the law, because by observing the law no one will be justified. "If, while
            we seek to be justified in Christ, it becomes evident that we ourselves
            are sinners, does that mean that Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not! If
            I rebuild what I destroyed, I prove that I am a lawbreaker. For through
            the law I died to the law so that I might live for God. I have been
            crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I live
            in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for
            me. I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be
            gained through the law, Christ died for nothing!"
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 3:9 All who rely on observing the law are
            under a curse, for it is written: "Cursed is everyone who does not continue to do
            everything written in the Book of the Law." Clearly no one is justified
            before God by the law, because, "The righteous will live by faith." The
            law is not based on faith; on the contrary, "The man who does these things will live
            by them." Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a
            curse for us, for it is written: "Cursed is everyone who is hung on a tree."
         </li>
         <li>Romans 10:33 Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer
            to God for the Israelites is that they may be saved. For I can testify
            about them that they are zealous for God, but their zeal is not based on knowledge.
            Since they did not know the righteousness that comes from God and
            sought to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 10:15 But not all the Israelites accepted the good news. For
            Isaiah says, "Lord, who has believed our message?" Consequently, faith
            comes from hearing the message, and the message is heard through the word of Christ.
            But I ask: Did they not hear? Of course they did: "Their voice has
            gone out into all the earth, their words to the ends of the world." Again
            I ask: Did Israel not understand? First, Moses says, "I
            will make you envious by those who are not a nation; I will make you angry by a
            nation that has no understanding." And Isaiah boldly says, "I was found
            by those who did not seek me; I revealed myself to those who did not ask for me."
            But concerning Israel he says, "All day long I have held out my hands to
            a disobedient and obstinate people."
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 10:17 Consider the people of Israel: Do not
            those who eat the sacrifices participate in the altar?
         </li>
         <li>2 Corinthians 11:23 Five times I received from the Jews the
            forty lashes minus one.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 10:27 For I do not want you to be ignorant
            of the fact, brothers, that our forefathers were all under the cloud and that they
            all passed through the sea. They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud
            and in the sea. They all ate the same spiritual food and drank
            the same spiritual drink; for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied
            them, and that rock was Christ. Nevertheless, God was not pleased with
            most of them; their bodies were scattered over the desert. Now these
            things occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as
            they did. Do not be idolaters, as some of them were; as it is written:
            "The people sat down to eat and drink and got up to indulge in pagan revelry." We
            should not commit sexual immorality, as some of them did--and in one
            day twenty-three thousand of them died. We should not test the Lord, as
            some of them did--and were killed by snakes. And do not grumble, as some
            of them did--and were killed by the destroying angel. These things
            happened to them as examples and were written down as warnings for us, on whom the
            fulfillment of the ages has come. So, if you think you are standing firm,
            be careful that you don't fall!
         </li>
         <li>Romans 11:24 I do not want you to be ignorant
            of this mystery, brothers, so that you may not be conceited: Israel has experienced
            a hardening in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in. And so all
            Israel will be saved, as it is written: "The deliverer will come from
            Zion; he will turn godlessness away from Jacob. And this is my covenant with them
            when I take away their sins." As far
            as the gospel is concerned, they are enemies on your account; but as far as election
            is concerned, they are loved on account of the patriarchs, for God's
            gifts and his call are irrevocable. Just as you who were at one time
            disobedient to God have now received mercy as a result of their disobedience, so they
            too have now become disobedient in order that they too may now
            receive mercy as a result of God's mercy to you.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 9:26 Isaiah cries out concerning
            Israel: "Though the number of the Israelites be like the sand by the sea, only the
            remnant will be saved.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 1:22 Jews demand miraculous signs</li>
         <li>Galatians 6:15 Peace and mercy to all who
            follow this rule, even to the Israel of God.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:18 Was a man already
            circumcised when he was called? He should not become uncircumcised.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 3:29 What advantage, then, is there in
            being a Jew, or what value is there in circumcision? Much in every way!
            First of all, they have been entrusted with the very words of God. What if
            some did not have faith? Will their lack of faith nullify God's faithfulness? Not
            at all! Let God be true, and every man a liar. As it is written: "So
            that you may be proved right when you speak and prevail when you judge." But if our
            unrighteousness brings out God's righteousness more clearly, what shall
            we say? That God is unjust in bringing his wrath on us? (I am using a human
            argument.) Certainly not! If that were so, how could God judge the world?
            Someone might argue, "If my falsehood enhances God's truthfulness and
            so increases his glory, why am I still condemned as a sinner?" Why not
            say--as we are being slanderously reported as saying and as some claim that we
            say--"Let us do evil that good may result"? Their condemnation is deserved.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 3:8 What shall we conclude then? Are
            we any better? Not at all! We have already made the charge that Jews and Gentiles
            alike are all under sin. As it is written: "There is no one righteous,
            not even one; there is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned
            away, they have together become worthless; there is no
            one who does good, not even one." "Their throats are open graves; their
            tongues practice deceit.The poison of vipers is on their lips." "Their
            mouths are full of cursing and bitterness." "Their feet are swift to shed
            blood; ruin and misery mark their ways, and the way of peace
            they do not know." "There is no fear of God before their eyes." Now we know that whatever
            the law says, it says to those who are under the law, so
            that every mouth may be silenced and the whole world held accountable to God. Therefore
            no one will be declared righteous in his sight by observing
            the law; rather, through the law we become conscious of sin.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 1:23 a stumbling
            block to Jews
         </li>
         <li>Romans 9:31 but Israel, who pursued a law of
            righteousness, has not attained it.Why not? Because they pursued it not
            by faith but as if it were by works. They stumbled over the "stumbling stone." As
            it is written: "See, I lay in Zion a stone that causes men to stumble
            and a rock that makes them fall, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to
            shame." 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 1:16 first for the Jew</li>
         <li>Romans 2:17 if you call yourself a
            Jew; if you rely on the law and brag about your relationship to God; if
            you know his will and approve of what is superior because you are instructed by the
            law; if you are convinced that you are a guide for the blind, a light for
            those who are in the dark, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of
            infants, because you have in the law the embodiment of knowledge and truth-- you,
            then, who teach others, do you not teach yourself? You who preach
            against stealing, do you steal? You who say that people should not commit
            adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who
            brag about the law, do you dishonor God by breaking the law?As
            it is written: "God's name is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you." Circumcision
            has value if you observe the law, but if you break the law,
            you have become as though you had not been circumcised. 
         </li>
         <li>2 Corinthians 11:26 in danger from my own countrymen</li>
         <li>Galatians 2:9 they to the
            Jews
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Gentiles</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>1 Timothy 2:6 And for this purpose I was appointed a herald and an
            apostle--I am telling the truth, I am not lying--and a teacher of the true faith to
            the Gentiles.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 9:24 As he says in Hosea: "I will call them
            'my people' who are not my people; and I will call her 'my loved one' who is not my
            loved one," and, "It will happen that in the very place where it was said
            to them, 'You are not my people,' they will be called 'sons of the living God.'"
            
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 10:18 Do I mean then that a sacrifice
            offered to an idol is anything, or that an idol is anything? No, but the
            sacrifices of pagans are offered to demons, not to God, and I do not want you to be
            participants with demons.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 15:27 For if the Gentiles have shared in the Jews'
            spiritual blessings, they owe it to the Jews to share with them their material
            blessings. 
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 1:22 Greeks look for wisdom</li>
         <li>Galatians 3:13 He redeemed us in order that the
            blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ Jesus, so that
            by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 11:12 I am talking to you Gentiles.
            Inasmuch as I am the apostle to the Gentiles, I make much of my ministry in the hope
            that I may somehow arouse my own people to envy and save some of them.
            For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will
            their acceptance be but life from the dead? If the part of the dough
            offered as firstfruits is holy, then the whole batch is holy; if the root is holy,
            so are the branches. If some of the branches have been broken off, and
            you, though a wild olive shoot, have been grafted in among the others and now share
            in the nourishing sap from the olive root, do not boast over those
            branches. If you do, consider this: You do not support the root, but the root
            supports you. You will say then, "Branches were broken off so that I
            could be grafted in." Granted. But they were broken off because of
            unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but be afraid. For
            if God did not spare the natural branches, he will not spare you either. Consider
            therefore the kindness and sternness of God: sternness to those who fell,
            but kindness to you, provided that you continue in his kindness. Otherwise, you also
            will be cut off. And if they do not persist in unbelief, they will be
            grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. After all, if you
            were cut out of an olive tree that is wild by nature, and contrary to nature were
            grafted into a cultivated olive tree, how much more readily will these, the natural
            branches, be grafted into their own olive tree! 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 15:14 I have written you quite boldly on some points, as if
            to remind you of them again, because of the grace God gave me to be a
            minister of Christ Jesus to the Gentiles with the priestly duty of proclaiming the
            gospel of God, so that the Gentiles might become an offering acceptable to God,
            sanctified by the Holy Spirit. 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 15:17 I will not
            venture to speak of anything except what Christ has accomplished through me in
            leading the Gentiles to obey God by what I have said and done-- by the
            power of signs and miracles, through the power of the Spirit. So from Jerusalem all
            the way around to Illyricum, I have fully proclaimed the gospel of Christ. It has
            always been my ambition to preach the gospel where Christ was not known, so
            that I would not be building on someone else's foundation. Rather, as it
            is written: "Those who were not told about him will see, and those who have not
            heard will understand."
         </li>
         <li>Romans 2:25 If those who are not circumcised keep
            the law's requirements, will they not be regarded as though they were circumcised?
            The one who is not circumcised physically and yet obeys the law will
            condemn you who, even though you have the written code and circumcision, are a
            lawbreaker
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 3:3 In reading this, then, you will be able to understand
            my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to men in
            other generations as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to God's holy apostles
            and prophets. This mystery is that through the gospel the Gentiles are
            heirs together with Israel, members together of one body, and sharers together in
            the promise in Christ Jesus.
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 4:16 So I tell you this, and
            insist on it in the Lord, that you must no longer live as the Gentiles do, in the
            futility of their thinking. They are darkened in their understanding and
            separated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to the
            hardening of their hearts. Having lost all sensitivity, they have given
            themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, with a
            continual lust for more. You, however, did not come to know Christ that
            way.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 9:30 That the
            Gentiles, who did not pursue righteousness, have obtained it, a righteousness that
            is by faith;
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 2:10 Therefore, remember that
            formerly you who are Gentiles by birth and called "uncircumcised" by those who call
            themselves "the circumcision" (that done in the body by the hands of men)-- remember
            that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from
            citizenship in Israel and foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope
            and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus you who once were
            far away have been brought near through the blood of Christ.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 1:7 To all in
            Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace and peace to you from God
            our
            Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 3:6 Understand, then, that those who
            believe are children of Abraham. The Scripture
            foresaw that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, and announced the gospel in
            advance to Abraham: "All nations will be blessed through
            you." So those who have faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of
            faith.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:18 Was a man uncircumcised when he was called?
            He should not be circumcised.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 1:23 foolishness to
            Gentiles
         </li>
         <li>2 Corinthians 11:26 in danger from Gentiles</li>
         <li>Romans 15:8 so that the Gentiles may glorify
            God for his mercy, as it is written: "Therefore I will praise you among the
            Gentiles; I will sing hymns to your name." Again, it says, "Rejoice, O
            Gentiles, with his people." And again, "Praise the Lord, all you
            Gentiles, and sing praises to him, all you peoples." And again, Isaiah
            says, "The Root of Jesse will spring up, one who will arise to rule over the
            nations; the Gentiles will hope in him." May the God of hope fill you
            with all joy and peace as you trust in him, so that you may overflow with hope by
            the power of the Holy Spirit.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 1:16 then for the Gentile</li>
         <li>Romans 1:5 we received grace and apostleship to call people from among all the Gentiles to the
            obedience that comes from faith
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 2:9 we should go to the
            Gentiles
         </li>
         <li>Romans 2:14 when Gentiles, who do not have the law,
            do by nature things required by the law, they are a law for themselves, even though
            they do not have the law, since they show that the requirements of the
            law are written on their hearts, their consciences also bearing witness, and their
            thoughts now accusing, now even defending them.
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for All Ethnic Groups</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Ephesians 2:13 
            For he himself is our peace, who has made the two one and has destroyed
            the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh
            the law with its commandments and regulations. His purpose was to create in himself
            one new man out of the two, thus making peace, and in this one body to
            reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their
            hostility. He came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace
            to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Father
            by one Spirit. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but
            fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household, built
            on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the
            chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises
            to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you too are being built
            together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit.
         </li>
         <li>Colossians 3:10 
            Here there is no Greek or Jew, circumcised or uncircumcised, barbarian,
            Scythian
         </li>
         <li>Romans 3:31 
            What then shall we say that Abraham, our
            forefather, discovered in this matter? If, in fact, Abraham
            was justified by works, he had something
            to boast about--but not before God. What does the
            Scripture say? "Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness."
            Now when a man works, his wages are not credited to him as a gift, but
            as an obligation. However, to the man who does not work but trusts God who
            justifies the wicked, his faith is credited as righteousness. David
            says the same thing when he speaks of the
            blessedness of the man to whom God credits righteousness apart from works: "Blessed
            are they whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sins are
            covered. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord will never count
            against him."
            Is this blessedness only for the circumcised, or also for the
            uncircumcised? We have been saying that Abraham's faith was credited to
            him as righteousness.
            Under what circumstances was it credited? Was it after he was
            circumcised, or before? It was not after, but before! And he received the sign of
            circumcision, a seal of the
            righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. So then, he
            is the father of all who believe but have not been circumcised, in order that
            righteousness might be credited to them. And he is also the father of
            the circumcised who not only are circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps
            of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was
            circumcised.
            It was not through law that
            Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of the
            world, but through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by
            law are heirs, faith has no value and the
            promise is worthless, because law brings wrath. And where there is no law
            there is no transgression. Therefore, the promise comes by faith, so that
            it may be by grace and may be guaranteed to all Abraham's
            offspring--not only to those who are of the law but also to those who are of the
            faith of Abraham. He is the father of us all. As it is written: "I have
            made you a father of many nations." He is our
            father in the sight of God, in whom he believed--the God who gives life to the
            dead and calls things that are not as though they were.
            Against all hope, Abraham
            in hope believed and so became the father of
            many nations, just as it had been said to him, "So shall your offspring be." Without
            weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was
            as good as dead--since he was about a hundred years old--and that Sarah's womb was
            also dead. Yet he did not
            waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his
            faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power
            to do what he had promised. This is why "it was credited to him as
            righteousness." The words "it was credited to him" were
            written not for him alone, but also for us, to whom God will credit
            righteousness--for us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead.
            He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for
            our justification.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 2:27 A man is not a
            Jew if he is only one outwardly, nor is circumcision merely outward and physical.
            No, a man is a Jew if he is one inwardly; and circumcision is
            circumcision of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the written code. Such a man's
            praise is not from men, but from God.
         </li>
         <li>Romans 11:10 Again I ask: Did they stumble so as
            to fall beyond recovery? Not at all! Rather, because of their transgression,
            salvation has come to the Gentiles to make Israel envious. But if their
            transgression means riches for the world, and their loss means riches for the
            Gentiles, how much greater riches will their fullness bring!
         </li>
         <li>Romans 3:20 But now a righteousness from
            God, apart from law, has been made known, to which the Law and the Prophets testify.
            This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ to
            all who believe. There is no difference, for all have sinned and fall
            short of the glory of God, and are justified freely by his grace through
            the redemption that came by Christ Jesus. God presented him as a
            sacrifice of atonement, through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate his
            justice, because in his forbearance he had left the sins committed beforehand
            unpunished-- he did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time, so
            as to be just and the one who justifies those who have faith in Jesus. Where, then,
            is boasting? It is excluded. On what principle? On that of observing
            the law? No, but on that of faith. For we maintain that a man is
            justified by faith apart from observing the law. Is God the God of Jews
            only? Is he not the God of Gentiles too? Yes, of Gentiles too, since
            there is only one God, who will justify the circumcised by faith and the
            uncircumcised through that same faith. Do we, then, nullify the law by
            this faith? Not at all! Rather, we uphold the law. 
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 10:31 Do not cause anyone to stumble, whether Jews, Greeks
            or the church of God--
         </li>
         <li>Romans 10:11 For there is no difference between Jew and Gentile--the
            same Lord is Lord of all and richly blesses all who call on him, for,
            "Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved." 
         </li>
         <li>Romans 2:9 There will be trouble and distress for every human being who does evil: first for
            the Jew, then for the Gentile
         </li>
         <li>Romans 2:10 but glory, honor and peace for everyone who does good: first for the Jew, then for
            the Gentile.
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 1:24 but to those whom God
            has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of
            God.
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 3:28 neither Jew nor Greek</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 12:13 whether Jews or
            Greeks
         </li>
         <li>Romans 9:24 whom he also called, not only
            from the Jews but also from the Gentiles?
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for the Rich</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>1 Timothy 6:8 
            People who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many
            foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love
            of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for
            money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs.
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 6:16 Command those who are rich in this present world not
            to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put
            their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command
            them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous
            and willing to share. In this way they will lay up treasure for
            themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of
            the life that is truly life. 
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for the Poor</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>2 Corinthians 9:8 
            As it is written: "He has scattered abroad his gifts to the poor; his
            righteousness endures forever."
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 2:10 we should continue to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager
            to do
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Slaves</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Titus 2:8 
            Teach slaves to be subject to their masters in everything, to try to
            please them, not to talk back to them, and not to steal from them, but to
            show that they can be fully trusted, so that in every way they will make the
            teaching about God our Savior attractive.
         </li>
         <li>1 Timothy 6:25 All who are under the yoke of slavery
            should consider their masters worthy of full respect, so that God's name and our
            teaching may not be slandered. Those who have believing masters are not to
            show less respect for them because they are brothers. Instead, they are to serve
            them even better, because those who benefit from their service are believers, and
            dear to them.
         </li>
         <li>Colossians 3:21 Slaves, obey your earthly masters in
            everything; and do it, not only when their eye is on you and to win their favor, but
            with sincerity of heart and reverence for the Lord. Whatever you do, work
            at it with all your heart, as working for the Lord, not for men, since
            you know that you will receive an inheritance from the Lord as a reward. It is the
            Lord Christ you are serving. Anyone who does wrong will be repaid for his
            wrong, and there is no favoritism.
         </li>
         <li>Ephesians 6:4 Slaves, obey your earthly masters with
            respect and fear, and with sincerity of heart, just as you would obey Christ. Obey
            them not only to win their favor when their eye is on you, but like
            slaves of Christ, doing the will of God from your heart. Serve
            wholeheartedly, as if you were serving the Lord, not men, because you know
            that the Lord will reward everyone for whatever good he does, whether he is slave
            or
            free
         </li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 7:20 Were you a slave when
            you were called? Don't let it trouble you--although if you can gain your freedom,
            do
            so. For he who was a slave when he was called by the Lord is the Lord's
            freedman; similarly, he who was a free man when he was called is Christ's slave.
            
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for Masters</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>Ephesians 6:8 And masters, treat your
            slaves in the same way. Do not threaten them, since you know that he who is both
            their Master and yours is in heaven, and there is no favoritism with him.
            
         </li>
         <li>Colossians 4:25 Masters, provide your slaves with what
            is right and fair, because you know that you also have a Master in heaven.
         </li>
      </ul>
      <h2>Instructions for all Classes</h2>
      <ul>
         <li>2 Corinthians 7:16 
            And now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace that God has given
            the Macedonian churches. Out of the most severe trial, their overflowing
            joy and their extreme poverty welled up in rich generosity. For I testify
            that they gave as much as they were able, and even beyond their ability. Entirely
            on
            their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in
            this service to the saints. And they did not do as we expected, but they
            gave themselves first to the Lord and then to us in keeping with God's will. So we
            urged Titus, since he had earlier made a
            beginning, to bring also to completion this act of grace on your part. But
            just as you excel in everything--in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in complete
            earnestness and in your love for us--see that you also excel in this grace of
            giving. I am not commanding you, but I want to test the sincerity of your
            love by comparing it with the earnestness of others. For you know the
            grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he
            became poor, so that you through his poverty might become rich. And here
            is my advice about what is best for you in this matter: Last year you were the first
            not only to give but also to have the desire to do so. Now finish the
            work, so that your eager willingness to do it may be matched by your completion of
            it, according to your means. For if the willingness is there, the gift is
            acceptable according to what one has, not according to what he does not have. Our
            desire is not that others might be relieved while you are hard
            pressed, but that there might be equality. At the present time your
            plenty will supply what they need, so that in turn their plenty will supply what you
            need. Then there will be equality, as it is written: "He who gathered
            much did not have too much, and he who gathered little did not have too
            little."
         </li>
         <li>Romans 13:5 This is also
            why you pay taxes, for the authorities are God's servants, who give their full time
            to governing. Give everyone what you owe him: If you owe taxes, pay taxes;
            if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor.
            
         </li>
         <li>Galatians 3:28 slave nor free</li>
         <li>"1 Corinthians" 12:13 slave or free</li>
         <li>Colossians 3:11 slave or free</li>
      </ul>
   </body>
</html>